# sql-challenge
due Monday  11/4 by 11:59 PM

This read me is going to be short since there was no gitlab for section 9 so I just went off the live chat and videos. I looked at the video from class Data Modeling - shared screen with speaker view for creating the first part for Data Modeling.

The next part was creating the tables with the correct columns for Data Engineering. It was helpful to have this website: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/35338711/cannot-drop-table-users-because-other-objects-depend-on-it so that I could delete my tables if they were not working correctly. Looking at the live chat I was able to make the basis for the tables. Then I was able to import the data given into those tables. I found out that trying to troubleshoot in pgAdmin is not fun, you have to find the error messages and they are not very good at explaining what went wrong. I didn't have a few of my varchar() long enough and they wouldn't import, but after changing all to Varchart(50) (except the sex category), it worked. This site helped me get a better understanding of primary and foreign keys: https://blog.devart.com/postgresql-foreign-key.html


The last part was just again looking through the live chat and this zoom video Live chat in Advanced SQL Queries- Shared screen with speaker view. is where I found the descending where Laura talked about it. I also found this website https://joshfrankel.me/blog/calculating-frequency-distribution-in-postgresql/ which gave me a little bit more information when trying make all the data analysis. I also found this site helpful, though I found it a little later in this section which I wish I would have had it sooner: https://joshfrankel.me/blog/calculating-frequency-distribution-in-postgresql/

I was curious about in the submission it says (Optional) Create a Jupyter notebook of the bonus analysis, but I didn't really understand what that was wanting so I didn't do it. Also I didn't see the "Ensure that your repository has regular commits and a thorough" as I just leave this open and add to it when I need to/at the end.